in this lesson we're going to explore
the benefits and usage of the azure
marketplace and exactly as the name
implies this is a place we can go in
azure where various offerings are
available that we can use in our
subscriptions these might be from
microsoft i.e first party or they can
actually be from third party suppliers
these are often things like virtual
machines
that are pre-configured with their
software to make virtual appliances
but it may also include things like load
balanced balance between them or
much more
this is probably easiest to just go and
look at this in action so here
from the azure portal i've just gone to
create a resource and straight away it's
showing some popular products and i can
see more in the marketplace
so it's showing me the azure marketplace
and i can search for anything i wanted
maybe i wanted something about vpn
let's talk about showing me some kind of
vpn options
that are available we can see there
based on virtual machines
from here
but it's going to get pre-configured
within this example the soft ether vpn
but there are ones from different
providers
and what we'll see is also they have a
software plans so there's an underlying
azure resource that you'll obviously pay
for in this case a vm
but also this is pay as you go licensing
so they're going to bill you for the
license as part of the azure charge
some of them it might be bring your own
license it doesn't charge you through
azure
but you have to configure your own
licensing
if we
reset that go back to our kind of
marketplace again let's close that off
we can see there was really services
around all different types of things
i could look at things around compute
this is going to focus around different
types of operating system
i could run within virtual machines but
also maybe different runtimes and even
application stacks for example we saw
there's lamp so it's a very common stack
that we see on top of linux
i can browse and i could see things
around for security
here there are different solutions some
of them are sas
some of them are managed services
some of them are applications some of
them are virtual machines so we have
these different types of resource that i
can deploy and use as part of my all up
solution
it's even possible as a company to
establish a private marketplace see here
i might not want my company directly
accessing things from the marketplace
instead i can establish a private
marketplace
and then the only things the people in
my company would see are things
published by microsoft and the things
that i have approved from third parties
that will show up as well
but the key point of this it's really
just a place we can go to see offerings
that third parties have integrated into
the marketplace to make it easier for us
as the customers to deploy